# JSON

**JSON** or **JavaScript Object Notation** is a lightweight text-based open standard designed for human-readable data interchange.

- It was designed for human-readable data interchange
- It has been extended from the JavaScript scripting language
- The filename extension is _.json_
- JSON Internet Media type is _application/json_

## Usage of JSON

It is used while writing JavaScript based applications that includes browser extensions and websites.

JSON format is used for serializing and transmitting structured data over network connection.

It is primarily used to transmit data between a server and web applications.

Web services and APIs use JSON format to provide public data.

It can be used with modern programming languages, which include C, C++, Python, Perl, etc.

## Example

```json
{
  "book": [
    {
      "id": "01",
      "language": "Java",
      "edition": "third",
      "author": "Herbert Schildt"
    },

    {
      "id": "07",
      "language": "C++",
      "edition": "second",
      "author": "E.Balagurusamy"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Syntax

- Data is represented in name/value pairs
- Curly braces hold objects and each name is followed by ':'(colon), the name/value pairs are separated by , (comma)
- Square brackets hold arrays and values are separated by ,(comma)

JSON supports the following two data structures:

- Collection of name/value pairs − This Data Structure is supported by different programming languages
- Ordered list of values − It includes array, list, vector or sequence etc

## Data types

| Type    | Description                                           |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Number  | double- precision floating-point format in JavaScript |
| String  | double-quoted Unicode with backslash escaping         |
| Boolean | true or false                                         |
| Array   | an ordered sequence of values                         |
| Object  | an unordered collection of key:value pairs            |

### Number

- It is a double precision floating-point format in JavaScript and it depends on implementation
- Octal and hexadecimal formats are not used
- No NaN or Infinity is used in Number

#### Number types

| Type     | Description                            |
| -------- | -------------------------------------- |
| Integer  | Digits 1-9, 0 and positive or negative |
| Fraction | Fractions like .3, .9                  |
| Exponent | Exponent like e, e+, e-, E, E+, E-     |

### String

- It is a sequence of zero or more double quoted Unicode characters with backslash escaping
- Character is a single character string i.e. a string with length 1

### Boolean

`true` of `false` values

### Array

- It is an ordered collection of values
- These are enclosed in square brackets which means that array begins with `[` and ends with `]`
- The values are separated by , (comma)
- Arrays should be used when the key names are sequential integers

### Object

- It is an unordered set of name/value pairs
- Objects are enclosed in curly braces that is, it starts with `{` and ends with `}`
- Each name is followed by ':'(colon) and the key/value pairs are separated by , (comma)
- The keys must be strings and should be different from each other
- Objects should be used when the key names are arbitrary strings

## Creating JSON object using JS​

### Empty object

```js
const data = {};

data.field1 = "value1";
```

### new Object()

```js
const data = new Object();

data.field1 = "value1";
```

### Object with data

```js
const data = { field1: "value1" };
```

## JSON vs XML

**JSON** and **XML** are human readable formats and are language independent. They both have support for creation, reading and decoding in real world situations.

### Verbose

**XML** is more verbose than **JSON**, so it is faster to write **JSON** for programmers.

### Arrays

**XML** is used to describe the structured data, which doesn't include arrays whereas **JSON** includes arrays.

### Parsing

`JS` `eval` method parses **JSON**. When applied to **JSON**, `eval` returns the described object.

JSON:

```json
{
  "company": "Volkswagen",
  "name": "Vento",
  "price": 800000
}
```

XML:

```xml
<car>
  <company>Volkswagen</company>
  <name>Vento</name>
  <price>800000</price>
</car>
```
