# XML DOM

The **Document Object Model (DOM)** is a W3C standard. It defines a standard for accessing documents like HTML and XML.

> The Document Object Model (DOM) is an application programming interface (API) for HTML and XML documents. It defines the logical structure of documents and the way a document is accessed and manipulated.

DOM defines the objects and properties and methods (interface) to access all XML elements. It is separated into 3 different parts/levels:

- **Core DOM** − standard model for any structured document
- **XML DOM** − standard model for XML documents
- **HTML DOM** − standard model for HTML documents

The HTML DOM defines a standard way for accessing and manipulating HTML documents. It presents an HTML document as a tree-structure.

The XML DOM defines a standard way for accessing and manipulating XML documents. It presents an XML document as a tree-structure.

All XML elements can be accessed through the XML DOM.

The XML DOM is:

- A standard object model for XML
- A standard programming interface for XML
- Platform- and language-independent
- A W3C standard

In other words: The XML DOM is a standard for how to get, change, add, or delete XML elements.

## Load an XML File

```html
<body>
  <p id="demo"></p>
  <script>
    const xhttp = new XMLHttpRequest();
    xhttp.onreadystatechange = ({ target }) => {
      if (target.readyState == 4 && target.status == 200) {
        loadFile(target);
      }
    };
    xhttp.open("GET", "http://localhost:8080/books.xml", true);
    xhttp.send();

    const loadFile = (xml) => {
      const xmlDoc = xml.responseXML;
      const firstTile =
        xmlDoc.getElementsByTagName("title")[0].childNodes[0].nodeValue;
      document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = firstTile;
    };
  </script>
</body>
```

Where:

- `xmlDoc` - the XML DOM object created by the parser.
- `getElementsByTagName("title")[0]` - get the first `<title>` element
- `childNodes[0]` - the first child of the `<title>` element (the text node)
- `nodeValue` - the value of the node (the text itself)

## Load an XML String

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <p id="demo"></p>

    <script>
      const text =
        "<bookstore><book>" +
        "<title>Everyday Italian</title>" +
        "<author>Giada De Laurentiis</author>" +
        "<year>2005</year>" +
        "</book></bookstore>";

      const parser = new DOMParser();
      const xmlDoc = parser.parseFromString(text, "text/xml");

      const firstTile =
        xmlDoc.getElementsByTagName("title")[0].childNodes[0].nodeValue;

      document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = firstTile;
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

## XML DOM Properties

- `x.nodeName` - the name of x
- `x.nodeValue` - the value of x
- `x.parentNode` - the parent node of x
- `x.childNodes` - the child nodes of x
- `x.attributes` - the attributes nodes of x

## XML DOM Methods

- `x.getElementsByTagName(name)` - get all elements with a specified tag name
- `x.appendChild(node)` - insert a child node to x
- `x.removeChild(node)` - remove a child node from x
